Cosmic Language

  In order to explain this idea, the faqirs and dervishes have told a story. A lion roaming through the desert found a
  little lion cub playing with the sheep. It so happened that the little lion had been reared with the sheep and so had
  never had a chance or an occasion to realize what he was. The lion was greatly surprised to see a young lion cub
  running away with the same fear of the lion as the sheep. He jumped in among the flock of sheep and roared, "Halt,
  halt!" But the sheep ran on and the little lion ran also. The lion pursued only the cub, not the sheep, and said,
  "Wait, I wish to speak to you." The cub answered, "I tremble, I fear, I cannot stand before you." "Why are you
  running about with the sheep? You are a little lion yourself!" "No, I am a sheep. I tremble, I am afraid of you. Let
  me go. Let me go with the sheep!" "Come along," said the lion, "come with me. I will take you and I will show you
  what you are before I let you go." Trembling, yet helpless, the lion cub followed the lion to a pool of water. There
  the lion said, "Look at me, and look at yourself. Are we not closer, are we not near? You are not like the sheep,
  you are like me."

  Through the whole spiritual process, what we learn is to disillusion this false ego. The annihilation of this false ego
  is its disillusionment. When once it is disillusioned, then the true ego realizes its own merit. It is in this realization
  that the soul enters the kingdom of God. It is in this realization that the soul is born again, a birth that opens the
  doors of heaven.

  Question: Must the true self have mind and body in order to be conscious of itself?

  Answer: The true self need not have mind and body for its existence. It does not depend upon mind and body for
  its existence, for its life, just as the eyes do not depend upon a mirror to exist. They only depend upon the mirror to
  see their reflection. Without it, the eyes will see all things, but they will never see themselves.

  Another example is intelligence. The intelligence cannot know itself unless it has something intelligible to hold;
  then the intelligence realizes itself. A person with poetic gift who is born a poet never realizes himself to be a poet
  until he has put his ideas on paper and his verse has struck a chord in his own heart. When he is able to appreciate
  his poetry, that is the time that he thinks, "I am a poet." Until then, there was a gift of poetry in him, but he did not
  know it.

  The eyes do not become more powerful by looking in the mirror. Only, the eyes know what they are like when they
  see their reflection. The pleasure is in realizing one’s merits, one’s gifts, what one possesses. It is in realizing that
  the merit lies. No doubt it would be a great pity if the eyes thought, "We are as dead as this mirror," or, if in
  looking into the mirror, they thought, "We do not exist except in the mirror." So, the false self is the greatest
  limitation.

  Question: Is not our Murshid our mirror?

  Answer: No. The Murshid stands in the place of the lion in the fable. But the pool of water is necessary.

  Question: Though the soul feels apart from the different bodies, does it not feel one with God?

  Answer: Not even with God. How could it? A soul that is captive in a false conception, who cannot see a barrier
  lifted up between itself and its neighbor, how can this soul lift its barrier to God whom it has not known yet? For
  every soul’s belief in God is a conception after all -- because it is taught by a priest, because it is written in
  scripture, because the parents have said that there is a God. That is all. That soul knows that somewhere there is a
  God, but it is always liable to change its belief, and unhappily, the farther it advances intellectually, the farther it
  goes from that belief. A belief that is pure intelligence cannot always hold, will not go far with a person. It is by the
  understanding of that belief that the purpose of life is fulfilled. It is said in the Gayan, "The uncovering of the soul
  is the discovering of God."

  Question: How does the true self dismiss mind and body in death?

  Answer: It is not easy for the true self to dismiss mind and body, when a person cannot dismiss in life his thoughts
  of depression, sorrow and disappointment. The impressions of happiness and sorrow in the past one holds in one’s
  own heart -- prejudice and hatred, love and devotion, everything that has gone deep in oneself. If that is the case,
  then even death cannot take them away. If the ego holds its prison around itself, it takes this prison with it, and
  there is only one way of being delivered from it and that is through self-knowledge.

  Question: Does a person immediately after death identify himself with his mental body, or still with the dead

file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
