Cosmic Language

  corpse?

  Answer: The mental body is just as the dead corpse. There is no difference because the one is built on the reflection
  of the other. For example, one does not see oneself different in the dream when the mind is in a normal condition.
  If the mind is abnormal, then one can see oneself as a cow, or as a horse, or as anything. But if the mind is normal,
  one cannot see oneself different from what one knows oneself to be. Therefore, the mental being is the same as
  one sees oneself in the dream. In the dream, one does not see the loss of the physical body. One is running or
  eating or enjoying in the dream; one does not realize the absence of the physical body. The same thing is in the
  hereafter. The hereafter does not depend upon a physical body to experience life fully. The sphere, in itself, is
  perfect, and life is experienced perfectly.

  Question: Is the ego completely destroyed by annihilation?

  Answer: The ego, itself, is never destroyed. It is the one thing that lives, and this is the sign of eternal life. In the
  knowledge of the ego, there is the secret of immortality. When it is said in the Gayan, "Death dies, and life lives,"
  it is the ego that is life, it is its false conception which is death. The false must fall away someday; the real must
  always be. So it is with life. The true living being is the ego, it lives; all else that it has borrowed for its use from
  different planes and spheres, and in which it has become lost, all that is put away. Do we not see this with our own
  body? Things that do not belong there do not remain in it, in the blood, in the veins, anywhere. The body will not
  keep them, it will repel them. So it is in every sphere. It does not take what does not belong to it. All that is outside
  it keeps outside. What belongs on earth is kept on earth, the soul repels it. The destroying of the ego is a word; it is
  not destroying, it is discovering.

  Often people are afraid when reading Buddhist books, where the interpretation of Nirvana is given as annihilation.
  No one wants to be annihilated, and people are very much afraid when they read "annihilation." But it is only a
  matter of words. The same word in Sanskrit is a beautiful word, "mukti." The Sufis call it, "fana." If we translate it
  into English, it is annihilation; but when we understand its real meaning, it is "going through" or "passing through."
  Passing through what? Passing through the false conception, which is a first necessity, and arriving at the true
  realization.



                                                                 CHAPTER XII

                                                             MIND AND HEART

  Thought, memory, will and reason, together with the ego as the fifth and principal factor, constitute the heart. It is
  these five things that may be called the heart; but in definitely naming the different parts of this heart, we call the
  surface of it, "mind," and the depth of it, "heart."

  If we imagine this heart as a lantern, then the light in the lantern makes it the spirit. We call the heart a lantern
  when we do not think of the light. However, when there is a light, then we forget the word lantern and we call it
  light. When we call the heart spirit, it does not mean spirit void of heart, as it does not mean light without lantern,
  but light in the lantern.

  The right use of the word, "spirit," however, is only as the essence of all things. The essential light and life from
  which all has come -- that is the spirit. But we use the word spirit also in a limited sense, just as light is the all-
  pervading light of the sun and at the same time the light in the lantern, which we call light, also.

  People call a part of the breast, "heart." The reason is that there is a part in this body of flesh that is most sensitive
  to feeling; and naturally, as man cannot grasp the idea of a heart outside of the body, he conceives this idea of the
  heart as being a part of his physical body.

  The ego stands separate from the four faculties of thought, memory, will and reason. It is just like four fingers and
  thumb. Why is the thumb not called a finger? Because the thumb is the whole hand. These four are faculties, but
  the ego is a reality. It holds and accommodates within itself the four faculties; and in order to distinguish it as
  different from them, we call it, "ego."

  As the surface of the heart is known by the imagination and thought, so the depth of the mind, which is heart, is


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
