Cosmic Language

  known by feeling.

  The difference between thought and imagination is that imagination is an automatic working of the mind. If the
  mind is fine, then there is a fine imagination. If the mind is gross, then there is a gross imagination. If there is a
  beautiful mentality, then the imagination is beautiful. Thought is also imagination, but imagination held, controlled
  and directed by will. Therefore, when we say, "He is a thoughtful person," it means that this person does not think,
  speak or act on impulse, but behind everything he does, there is will power that controls and directs the actions of
  his mind.

  There are nine principal feelings that can be distinguished as mirth, grief, anger, passion, sympathy, attachment,
  fear, bewilderment and indifference. Feelings cannot be limited to these nine; but when we distinguish numerous
  feelings, we may reduce them to these nine distinct feelings that we experience in life.

  There are six diseases that belong to the heart: passion, anger, infatuation, conceit, jealousy and covetousness.

  The more one thinks on the subject of the heart, the more one finds that, if there is anything that can tell us of our
  personality, it is the heart. If there is anything through which we feel ourselves or know ourselves -- know what we
  are -- it is the heart and what our heart contains. Once a person understands the nature, the character and the
  mystery of the heart, then he understands, so to speak, the language of the whole universe.

  There are three ways of perception. One way of perception belongs to the surface, to the mind. It is thought.
  Thought manifests to our mind with a definite form, line and color.

  The next way of perception is feeling. It is felt by quite another part of the heart. It is felt by the depth of the heart,
  not by the surface. The more the heart quality is awakened in a person, the more he perceives the feelings of others.
  That person is sensitive because to him, the thoughts and feelings of others are clear. The one who lives on the
  surface does not perceive feelings clearly. Also, there is a difference between the evolution of the two, of the one
  who lives on the surface of the heart and the other who lives in the depths. In other words, the one lives in his
  mind, and the other lives in his heart.

  There is still a third way of perceiving that is not even through feeling and that may be called a spiritual language.
  This perception comes from the deepest depths of the heart. It is the voice of the spirit. It does not belong to the
  lantern, it belongs to the light -- but in the lantern, it becomes clearer and more distinct. This perception may be
  called intuition; there is no better name for it.

  In order to study life fully, these three perceptions must be developed. Then, alone, is one able to study life fully;
  and it is in studying life fully that one is able to form a judgment upon it.

  Question: Could you explain further how the mind is the surface of the heart, and the heart, the depth of the mind?

  Answer: There are five fingers, but one hand. There are several organs of the body, but one body. There is a
  universe full of variety, but one Spirit. So, there is one heart that feels the various thoughts and imaginations that
  spring up and then sink into it. The bubbles are to be found on the surface of the sea. The depth of the sea is free
  from bubbles. The commotion is to be seen on the surface, the depth of the sea is still. The mind is the commotion
  of that something that is within us, that something which we call heart.

  The happiness, knowledge, pleasure and love that is stored in our innermost being is in our profound depth.
  Changing emotions and passions, dreams, ever-rising thoughts and imaginations, all belong to the surface, as the
  bubbles belong to the surface of the sea.

  Question: Can we say that the heart is nearer to the soul, and the mind, nearer to the body?

  Answer: Yes, in a certain way. But at the same time, the soul experiences through the whole being, through the
  body, through the mind, through the heart, as it happens to be in different planes of existence.

  Question: Is the heart one of the soul’s bodies?

  Answer: Certainly. The heart is one of the bodies of the soul, the finest body. It goes a long way with the soul,
  even on its return journey.


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
