Cosmic Language


  Question: Is the heart the same as the angelic body?

  Answer: Yes, quite true.

  Question: Is it, therefore, that the Catholics have a special devotion for the Sacred Heart of Jesus?

  Answer: Of course. The heart is the shrine of God. If God is ever to be found anywhere, it is in the heart of man,
  especially in the heart of that man in whom the divine manifests.

  Question: Is the heart the home of the soul?

  Answer: Yes, one may call the heart a home of the soul, but I would call it a temporary hotel.

  Question: Is the world of feelings higher than the world of thoughts?

  Answer: Yes.

  Question: What is indifference?

  Answer: This is a word that I always find difficult to explain, and I have made many people angry by talking about
  indifference. They say, "Where is the love that you have come to preach to us? Indifference is quite contrary to
  love, to the message and the teaching." When people read in Buddhism and Yogism about renunciation, nirvana,
  vairagia -- which in Sufi terms of the Persian poets is, "fana," -- they begin to ask, "Have they all taught to become
  indifferent, have they taught such cruelty?" In reality, it is quite a different thing. Indifference is not lovelessness
  nor is it lack of sympathy. Indifference is most useful at the time when a soul has arrived at that sensitiveness when
  every little thing hurts. Then it is only indifference which keeps it alive.

  You might say that it is not good to be sensitive. Yes, but without being sensitive, you cannot evolve. Sensitiveness
  is a sign of evolution. If you are not sensitive, then you cannot feel in sympathy with your fellowmen. If you do not
  feel the feelings of your fellowmen, then you are not yet awakened to life. Therefore, in order to become a normal
  human being, one has to develop sensitiveness, or at least to arrive at sensitiveness. When you are sensitive, then
  life becomes difficult to live. The more sensitive you are, the more thorns you will find on your way. Every move
  you make, at every turn, at every step, there is something to hurt you. It is only one spirit that you can develop, and
  that is the spirit of indifference; yet, not taking away the love and sympathy you have for another -- that is the right
  indifference. To say to a person, "I do not care for you because you have been thoughtless," that is not the right
  kind of indifference, that is not the indifference that mystics relate as being vairagia. The mystical indifference is
  that a soul retains sympathy and love, even at the thoughtlessness of a person, and expresses it as forgiveness. In
  the Bible, we read the words of Christ, "Turn the other side of your face if a person has struck you on one side."
  What else is this than the lesson of indifference? How can a sensitive person, a person of feeling, a spiritual,
  tenderhearted person, live in this world if he is not indifferent? He cannot live here one moment! There is only this
  one thing that protects him from the continual jarring influences that come from all sides.

  Question: Why not call it detachment?

  Answer: Detachment is not really the right word. We cannot be detached, we are never detached. Life is one and
  nothing can separate it. Detachment is only an illusionary aspect of life. There is no such thing as detachment in
  truth. How can there be detachment when life is one!

  Often, in order to make it clearer, I have said that "indifference" and "independence" are two meanings of that one
  word, "vairagia." Indifference, alone, explains it only halfway.

                                                                 CHAPTER XIII

                                                                  INTUITION

  Intuition rises from the depths of the human heart. It has two aspects: one is dependent upon an outer impression,
  and the other is independent of any outer impressions. The former is called, "impression," and the latter,
  "intuition." Intuition is a fine faculty. As it comes by responsiveness, it is a feminine faculty. Woman, therefore, is
  more intuitive by nature than man.

file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
