Cosmic Language


  Often one says, "This person gives me such and such an impression," but there is no reason to prove it. One is
  perhaps not capable of finding any reason to prove it; nevertheless, one’s impressions are right. There are some
  people who are naturally intuitive. For someone who is intuitive, it is not necessary to wait until he, so to speak,
  finds a person out. All he needs is one moment. As soon as his eyes fall upon the person, this instantly gives rise to
  an impression, which is the former kind of intuition. Someone with a fine mind and with a still mind generally has
  intuition. Someone with a gross mind and a restless mind lacks it.

  Intuition is a super sense. It may be called a sixth sense. It is the essence of all senses. When a person says he
  sensed something, it does not mean that there were objective reasons to prove that it was so. It means that, without
  any outer reasons or objective signs, he has sensed it.

  Intuition that is independent of impressions is of a still deeper nature, for it comes before one wishes to begin a
  thing and so one knows what will come out of it. Before the beginning of an enterprise, one senses the results of it.
  Intuition is sometimes a kind of inner guidance, and sometimes it is a kind of warning from within.

  How does one perceive intuition? It is first expressed in the language of feeling. That feeling, spreading within the
  horizon of the mind, shapes itself and becomes more narrative of its idea. Then the mind turns it into a form, and
  then language interprets it. Therefore, it is the feeling heart to which intuition belongs.

  In order to become clear so that it can be distinguished, intuition turns into three different conditions -- into a
  feeling, into an imagination, or into a phrase. The person who hears the voice of intuition, even when it is in its
  first process of development, is more capable of perceiving intuition and it is he who may be called intuitive.
  Another person distinguishes it when it expresses itself in the realm of thought. Then there is a third person who
  can only distinguish his intuition when it is manifest in the form of a phrase.

  It is the kind person, the loving person, the pure-hearted person, the person of goodwill, who is intuitive. Intuition
  has nothing to do with learning. An unlettered person can be much more intuitive than one who is most qualified,
  for intuition lies in another domain of knowledge and comes from quite another direction.

  Very often, an intuitive person makes a mistake in catching the right intuition, for the intuition comes from one
  side while his mind reacts from the other side, and he does not know which is which. If he takes the action of his
  mind for intuition, and is once disappointed, then he loses faith in himself. So, naturally, he no longer gives thought
  to intuition, and that faculty diminishes in him more and more every day. To catch an intuition is the most difficult
  thing, for in a moment’s time, both are working -- intuition on the one hand, and mind on the other. It is as if two
  ends of a stick placed in the center upon another stick were to move up and down, and one did not notice which
  end rose first and which end rose after.

  Therefore, one needs to take a very keen notice of the actions of the mind, and this ability is gained by a thorough
  practice of concentration. One must be able to look at one’s mind just as at a slate placed before one. While
  looking at it, one must be able to shut oneself off from all sides, fixing one’s mind solely upon one’s inner being.
  By developing concentration, by stilling the mind, one can be tuned to the pitch that is necessary to perceive
  intuition.

  If one has once been disappointed in perceiving one’s intuition, then one must not lose courage, one must go on
  following it even if it continues to be a mistake. If one continually follows one’s intuition, then one will come to
  the right perception of it.

  The dream is another wonder, a phenomenon of the mind. In the dream, it is not only imagination and thought that
  work, but also intuition. Intuitions that arise in the waking state arise in the dream state and become clearer, for at
  that time a person is naturally more concentrated, his eyes being closed to the outer world. However, then, also,
  there is the same problem -- no sooner has intuition risen from the depths than imagination rises from the surface,
  and one does not know which is which. That is why many dreams are confused. A part of the dream is expressive
  of some truth, and a part of the dream is confused.

  There is no dream that has no meaning. If the dream has nothing to do with intuition, then it is a purely automatic
  activity of all that the mind has gone through in one’s work during the day. The same activity goes on
  automatically, just like a moving picture before one. Yet, even behind that there is a meaning, for nothing is
  projected on the curtain of the mind that does not take root in the soil of the heart, producing similar flowers and

file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
