Cosmic Language

  fruits. If, in the dream, intuition is working, then the dream is narrative of something in the past, present or future.

  There is, however, a kind of dream that shows everything upside-down, just like a mirror that shows a fat person
  thin and a thin person fat, a tall person short and a short person tall. So, there also comes a condition of the mind
  where everything shows quite the contrary to what it is. This fault can be traced as the fault of the mind. The mind
  has been turned upside-down; and therefore, all that a person sees looks upside-down, especially in that dream
  state. Sometimes this dream shows quite the opposite to what was, what is, and what is going to be. If a person did
  not understand this nature of the dream, then he would interpret it quite contrarily to its real nature.

  There are dreams that may be called visions. They are reflections -- reflections of persons, of their minds, of
  worlds, of planes on which the mind has become focused. If the mind is focused on a certain world, then the
  dreams are of that world. If a person is focusing his mind upon himself, then his own thoughts come to him. If the
  mind is focused on a certain person, then that person and what is within him is reflected in the dream. If the mind is
  focused on a certain plane of being, then the conditions of that plane are reflected upon the mind.

  The deeper one goes into this subject, the more one finds that in the understanding of the dream, in its nature, its
  mystery, its character, one understands the secret of the whole life.

  Question: Could you please tell us about the difference between impulse and intuition?

  Answer: The impulse of an intuitive person is often guided by intuition; but the impulse of a person who lacks
  intuition may come from another direction; it may come from the surface. Impulse directed by intuitionis
  desirable.

  Impulse is just like a little straw floating on the surface of the water. This straw becomes an impulse when it is
  pushed by a wave that is coming from behind. For a right impulse, man gets credit; for a wrong impulse, he is
  blamed. Yet, if one saw what was behind the impulse, one would be slow to express an opinion on the subject.

  Question: How do you explain symbolical dreams?

  Answer: The symbolical dream is the working of a subtle mind and it is a most wonderful working. As subtle as is
  the mentality, so subtle is the symbol in which the intuition or the thought is expressed. Therefore, it has been very
  easy for the mystics to see the evolution of a person from his dreams. The subtler his dreams, the subtler the person
  is in his evolution. Nevertheless, the virtue is not only in subtlety; the virtue is in simplicity. Poets, musicians,
  thinkers, writers, people of imagination, have wonderful dreams, and the splendor of their dreams is in their
  marvelous symbology.

  Question: Is it the study of symbols that develops intuition?

  Answer: Not at all. It is intuition that develops insight into symbolism.

  Question: Are conditions in dreams the same as the conditions after death?

  Answer: Certainly.

  Question: Are dreams of suffocation, drowning and inability to walk and speak a result of one’s health?

  Answer: No, they are results of impressions that have been held in the mind. It is a kind of psychological disorder
  of the mind, a disease of the mind. The mind must be cured from it.

  Question: What about dreams that are inspired by a stimulus from the physical body, as for instance a dream
  inspired by a feeling of pain in the body?

  Answer: The mind has a reaction upon the body, and the body has a reaction upon the mind. Therefore, it is natural
  that a bodily disorder may throw its shadow upon the mind and produce the same disorder in the mind.

  Question: What about dreams of flying? Many people say that they are a bad sign.

  Answer: I think this is the most interesting thing in the world. You do not need airplanes! Dreams of flying have


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
