Cosmic Language

  much to do with biology. Psychologically, they are expressive of the soul’s continual effort of rising above the
  imprisonment and limitation that it experiences in this earthly life. Also, dreams of flying signify a journey
  awaiting one in the future.

  Question: Will you please tell us what makes a person sing in his sleep?

  Answer: The dance of his soul.

  Question: What is the condition of the mind of people who nearly never dream? Are they not imaginative?

  Answer: I think that they are better than imaginative -- they are happy! The truth is that either a very advanced
  person does not dream much, or a very dense person who never troubles his brain to think. He is quite happy and
  content without troubling to think. He does not have many dreams. Do not think that you seldom find such souls.
  You often meet with souls to whom thinking is a trouble, and they would rather not trouble themselves about it.

  Question: What is the difference between the dream that may be called a vision, and the real vision?

  Answer: Vision is vision. The more one knows reality, the less one uses the word, "real." There is one vision that is
  seen in the dream, and there is another vision that is seen in a state of trance, a state between dreaming and
  wakefulness.

                                                                 CHAPTER XIV

                                                                 INSPIRATION

  Inspiration is a higher form of intuition, for it comes as an idea, as a complete theme with its improvisation, as a
  phrase creative of a poem. Inspiration is a stream, a stream of wonder and bewilderment. The really inspired person
  -- whether a writer, a poet, a composer, or whatever may be his work -- when once he has received an inspiration,
  he has found satisfaction -- not with himself, but with what has come to him. It gives his soul such a relief, for the
  soul was drawing from something and that object from which it was drawing has yielded to the soul, has given it
  what it was asking for. Therefore, inspiration may be called the soul’s reward.

  It is not by being anxious to receive something that one is able to receive it. It is not by straining the brain that one
  can write poetry. It is not by worrying for days that one can compose a piece of music. One who does so cannot
  receive inspiration. The one who receives inspiration is quite tranquil and unconcerned about what is coming.
  Certainly, he is desirous of receiving something, he is passionately longing to conceive it. It is by focusing his mind
  to the divine mind that, consciously or unconsciously, man receives inspiration.

  This phenomenon is so great and so wonderful that its joy is unlike any other joy in the world. It is in this joy that
  the inspirational genius experiences ecstasy. It is a joy that is almost indescribable. It is an upliftment. One feels
  that one is raised from the earth when one’s mind is focused on the divine mind -- for inspiration comes from the
  divine mind. What the great musicians, poets, thinkers, philosophers, writers and prophets have left to the world is
  always uplifting, although it is not every soul who comprehends their work fully, and therefore not every soul can
  enjoy it fully. But imagine their own enjoyment of what came to them; there are no words to express it! It is in
  inspiration that one begins to see the sign of God, and the most materialistic genius begins to wonder about the
  divine Spirit when once inspiration has begun to come to him.

  One might ask, "Does inspiration come as a finished picture? Does it come as a written letter?" No, it comes to an
  artist as if his hand were taken by someone else, as if his eyes were closed and his heart were open. He has drawn
  something, he has painted something, and he does not know who painted it, who drew it. Inspiration comes to a
  musician as if someone else were playing or singing and he were only taking it down -- a complete melody, a
  perfect air. After he has written it down, then it enchants his soul. To a poet, inspiration comes as if someone were
  dictating and he were only writing. There is no strain on his brain, there is no anxiety in receiving it.

  It is, therefore, that many confuse inspiration with spirit communication. Many inspirational people are glad to
  attribute inspiration to a spirit, knowing that it does not come from themselves -- but it is not always spirit
  communication. It is natural that inspiration should come from a being living just now on earth or from someone
  who has passed; yet the most profound inspiration comes always from the divine mind, and to God, alone, the
  credit is due. Even if an inspiration comes through the mind of a person living on earth or through a soul who has


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
