Cosmic Language

  passed on to the other side, it still has come from God, for all knowledge and wisdom belong to God.

  It is a fault on the part of mankind to attribute inspiration to some limited being who is nothing but a shadow
  covering God. When a person believes that an old Egyptian comes from the other side to inspire him or that an
  American Indian comes to lead him on his way, he builds a wall between himself and God. Instead of receiving
  directly from the source that is perfect and all sufficient, he is picturing his limited idea, making it a screen between
  himself and God.

  The best way for the genius is to make himself an empty cup, free from pride of learning or conceit of knowledge,
  to become as innocent as a child who is ready to learn whatever may be taught to him. It is the one who becomes
  as a child before God, at the same time longing and yearning to express music through his soul, who becomes a
  fountain of God. From that fountain divine inspiration rises and brings beauty before all those who see the fountain.

  There is one step further, and that is when the person no longer remains a poet or a musician or a philosopher but
  becomes God’s instrument, only. Then God begins to speak to him through everything, not only in music or verse,
  in color or line, but he begins to communicate with God in all forms. Everything he sees, above or below, before or
  behind, right or left, either heavenly or earthly, is communicative. He then begins to speak with God, and it is this
  step that is called, "revelation."

  There is a story of Moses, relating that when he was looking for fire to bake bread, he happened to see a light on
  the top of a mountain. So, in order to take this fire, he climbed to the top of the mountain, but there the fire became
  lightning. Moses could no longer withstand that great flashing and he fell to the ground. When he awoke, he began
  to communicate with God.

  This story is allegorical. The idea is that Moses was looking for light to make it his life’s sustenance, but he had to
  climb onto the higher planes. It was not possible to get it on earth where he stood; it was necessary that he should
  climb to the top. And then there was not only a light, but it was lightning. It was a light that was beyond the power
  of Moses to withstand, and he fell down. What is this falling down? To become nothing, to become empty. When
  he reached that state of emptiness, then his heart became sonorous and he found communication with God through
  everything in the world -- in the rock, tree or plant; in the star, sun or moon; in whatever he saw he found
  communication with his soul. So, everything revealed its nature and secret to Moses. It is in connection with this
  revelation that Sa’adi says that every leaf of the tree becomes a page of the sacred scripture once the soul has
  learned to read.

  Question: I quite understand that inspiration comes from God, but would you kindly explain how one receives
  inspiration from a person on earth whom one does not know?

  Answer: Inspiration comes through the mediumship of a living being in three forms: when you are in the presence
  of someone who is inspiring; when you are in the thoughts of someone who is inspiring; and when your heart is in
  a state of perfect tranquillity and inspiration that is flowing through the heart of an inspirational genius comes into
  your heart. It is just like the wireless. Sometimes you connect it with a certain station from which you are to
  receive the music, and sometimes you do not connect it, but it remains a wireless machine. If anything passing
  through is not received, it is not heard, but the sound is there just the same. In the same way, one receives
  inspiration from these three different sources.

  Question: When inspiration comes originally from the Divine Mind, must it always be vehicled by someone who
  has passed on, or who is on earth?

  Answer: There are different processes. It all depends upon how the heart of the person is focused on the Divine
  Spirit. There is a person whose heart is focused directly on the Divine Spirit, and there is another to whom the
  Divine Spirit is too remote. His heart is focused on a center, and this center is focused on the Divine Spirit from
  where it receives the message. So, it all comes from the Divine Spirit just the same.



                                           PHRASES TO BE REPEATED
  The following sentences were composed by Hazrat Inayat Khan to be used, according to the needs of each person,


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
