Cosmic Language

  Question: Do not drama and tragedy do harm?

  Answer: There are many things that harm us, but there are many things which, at the same time, are interesting.
  Besides this, there are minds that are more attracted to tragedy than to anything else. It is natural, for when there is
  a sore, that sore feels alive for the moment, a sensation, which is perhaps agreeable. It may be called pain, but it is
  an agreeable pain when the sore is scratched. Tragedy has that effect. No doubt too much tragedy is not desirable
  for anybody, but an artistic nature, a person who loves poetry, finds something in tragedy. It would be depriving
  oneself of a great joy not to read Shakespeare. But when people write poetry in connection with some personality,
  a king or a sovereign, or anyone, then there is a direct effect. Whereas, the poetry of Shakespeare is general.
  However, a play has an effect, and a serious effect, too!

  The above is according to the psychological point of view, it is not meant to say that it is the point of view of the
  Sufi. For Sufis are very fond of poetry, and their passion for poetry goes sometimes very far in expressing the
  sentiment of longing, yearning, heartbreak, disappointment. However, that is not psychological; according to
  psychology, it is not right!

  Question: How does one learn the inner meaning of a certain piece of music?

  Answer: Once you have read, "The Soul Whence and Whither," you begin to feel that in every plane, the cover of
  that particular plane is required in order to experience the life in that plane. So, music being a world, poetry being a
  world, and art being a world, a person who lives in the world of art, in the world of poetry, in the world of music,
  knows music, poetry or art and he appreciates it. In order to have an insight into music, one must live in it and
  observe that world most keenly. It is not sufficient that a person should be musical and that he should occupy his
  heart and soul with music. He should also develop intuition that he may see music keenly.

                                                                 CHAPTER VI

                                                        THE LIFE OF THOUGHT

  God is omniscient, omnipotent, all-pervading and the Only Being. This suggests to us that the absolute is living
  being -- the Only Being -- and that there is no such thing as death, that there is no such thing as an end, that
  everything, every being, every particle, has a continuity because life is continuous.

  End or death is only a change. Therefore, every thought that has once crossed the mind, every feeling that has once
  passed through the heart, every word that was once spoken and perhaps never thought about any longer, every
  action, once done and forgotten, is given a life and it continues to live. It is just like a traveler who is journeying
  and who, on his way, has some seeds in his hands, which he throws on the ground. When the plants grow in that
  place, he never sees them. He just threw the seeds, and they are there. The earth has taken them, the water has
  reared them, and the sun and the air have helped them to grow.

  This life is an accommodation and in it, everything -- thought, word, action and feeling -- once given birth, is
  taken care of, is raised and brought to fruition. One would hardly think that it could be so. One thinks, it is spoken
  and gone, or done and finished with, or it was felt and now it is no longer there. But it is only a change, and it is
  the change of which we are conscious. We know of something and then it is no longer before us. We think it is
  gone, but it is still there. It remains, and it pursues its course, for it is life. In everything, there is life, and life lives.
  As all is life, there is no death.

  No doubt birth and death, beginning and end, are the names of the different aspects of this mechanical working of
  the whole universe. It is a kind of automatic working that gives us an idea of something beginning or ending.
  When we ring a bell the action takes only a moment, but the resonance lasts. It lasts, to our knowledge, as long as
  it is audible. Then it passes on farther and is no longer audible to us, but it exists. It exists somewhere, it goes on.

  If a little pebble thrown into the sea puts the water into action, then one hardly stops to think to what extent this
  vibration acts upon the sea. What one can see is the little waves and circles that the pebble produces before one.
  One sees these, but the vibration that has been produced in the sea reaches much father than man can ever imagine.
  What we call space is a much finer world. If we call it sea, it is a sea with the finest fluid. If we call it land, it is a
  land which is incomparably more fertile than the land we know. This land takes everything in it and brings it up, it
  rears it, it allows it to grow; our eyes do not see it, our ears do not hear it.


file:///F|/Downloads/HIK_Message/IIp4.htm[21.08.2010 22:25:26]
